## Exercise 1-1

Comment on the choice of names and values in the following code.

```c
#define TRUE 0
#define FALSE 1

if ((ch = getchar()) == EOF)
   not_eof = FALSE;
```

## Solution

Defining `TRUE` to be `0` and `FALSE` to be `1` is certainly odd and definitely a terrible idea. It goes against the language properties of interpreting `0` as being false and anything that is not `0` as being true. This conflict can lead to some unexpected results. For example, one would reasonably expect this to loop forever:

```c
while (TRUE) {
      /* ... */
}
```

And one would expect the code inside the `if` to be evaluated unconditionally:

```c
if (TRUE) {
   /* ... */
}
```

Or even:

```c
if (!FALSE) {
   /* ... */
}
```

Whereas in fact the behavior will be exactly the opposite. If an infinite loop is desired, the programmer is forced to write this instead:

```c
while (FALSE) {
      /* ... */
}
```

And similarly for the `if`s. `TRUE` should be defined as `1` and `FALSE` should be defined as `0` to maintain consistency and sanity.

The other issue is with the variable name. `not_eof` isn't a great choice - it is usually a bad idea to have "negated" variable names. It forces the programmer to do mental logic to really understand the meaning: *if `not_eof` is `FALSE`, then it means that `EOF` is true, so the input is over*. This is overly complicated and unnecessary; if the intent is to test for `EOF`, we might as well choose a better name such as `is_eof`:

```c
#define TRUE 1
#define FALSE 0

if ((ch = getchar()) == EOF)
   is_eof = TRUE;
```

Finally, if the compiler supports it (virtually all of them do nowadays), `stdbool.h` should be used instead of rolling our own boolean implementation.
